Q1. Why do we call Python as a general purpose and high-level programming language?
Ans.Python is called high level language because it convets human redable code to machine level code
    that computer understands i.e binary(0,1) and it is general purpose as well since it is widely used
    for machine learning and data science because of its somplicity and it is easy to begin with for freshers
    as well.
Q2. Why is Python called a dynamically typed language?
Ans. Python is called dynamically typed language because the python interpreter does not know about the 
     data type of the variables.
Q3. List some pros and cons of Python programming language?

pros :  1 . Python is easy of to learn.
        2 . Python has a large open source community.
        3 . It has large varities of libraries be it data science or machine learning

cons :  1 . Python is slower than some modern high level languages like c++ due to its dynamically typed nature.
        2 . It is not suitable for the projects where security is a major concern.
        3 . It has complex multithreading.

Q4. In what all domains can we use Python?
Ans. Python can be used in Data Science , Machine learing , IOT , computer vision , scripting, web development , etc.

Q5. What are variable and how can we declare them?
Ans. Variables are entity that store value in the primary memory of the device during runtime.
    a=5
    b="This is python variable assignment"

Q6. How can we take an input from the user in Python?
Ans. name = input("Enter your name")

Q7. What is the default datatype of the value that has been taken as an input using input() function?
Ans. String
Q8. What is type casting?
Ans. Type casting is a process of converting a variable of any data type to another type.
      int('50') #casting a string into integer

Q9. Can we take more than one input from the user using single input() function? If yes, how? If no, why?
Ans. yes we can take more than one input form the user by using split() method with input.
    for example : x, y, z = input("Enter three numbers: ").split()

Q10. What are keywords?
Ans. Keywords are the reserved words that are already defined by the language and can not used as a
     variable or function name.
Q11. Can we use keywords as a variable? Support your answer with reason.
     No, we can not use keywords as variables as keywords are reserved words.
     
Q12. What is indentation? What's the use of indentaion in Python?
Ans. Indentation is way of making code more readable by giving proper spaces and line gaps in the code.
     In Pyhton the indentation is used to indicate the block of code whether it is in conditionals or in loops.

     for Examlple: 
                    if n>0:
                        print("n is a natural number")

Q13. How can we throw some output in Python?
Ans. we can use python's inbuilt function print() to display output in terminal.
    for Example : print("Hello World")

Q14. What are operators in Python?
Ans. operator in python are used to perform operations variables.
    There are several types of operators in python like Arithmetic operators,Assignment operators, Comparison operators, Logical operators,etc.

    for Examlple : +,-,*,/ are the Arithmetic operators that are used to perform operations on Variables
                 : 2+4, 4-2 , etc.


Q15. What is difference between / and // operators?
Ans. / is normal divison operator that returns the result with the digits after the decimal.
     for Example :  12/5 = 2.4

     // is a Floor division operator that rounds the result down to the nearest whole number
      for Example : 12//5 = 2
      but if any of the operand is negative the result will be rounded of the upper nearest whole number
      for Example : -12//5 = -3

Q16. Write a code that gives following as an output.

iNeuroniNeuroniNeuroniNeuron

Ans.
        for n in range(4):
            print("iNeuron")

Q17. Write a code to take a number as an input from the user and check if the number is odd or even.
Ans. 
        n= int(input("Enter a number"))
        if n%2==0:
            print("Number is even")
        else:
            print("Number is odd")


Q18. What are boolean operator?
Ans. Boolean operators are those who have values either True or Flase.

Q19. What will the output of the following?

1 or 0 = 1

0 and 0 = 0

True and False and True = False

1 or 0 or 0 = 1
Q20. What are conditional statements in Python?
Ans. conditional statements are the set of code, if the conditions are met the code inside the consditionals block will execute otherwise not.
    for Example : 
                    if n%2==0:          # since condition is true the code inside if block will execute
                            print("number is even") 
Q21. What is use of 'if', 'elif' and 'else' keywords?
Ans. if, elif and else are the conditionals statements that are used to check for conditions of variables and execute the code inside the block.

    for Examlple: check for user and print its role

                  if role == "student":
                        print("Role is student")
                  elif role == "teacher":
                        print("Role is teacher")
                  else:
                        print("Role is another user")